# COSMOS-DesignProject

## Introduction

Internet of Things (IoT) is a burgeoning field which is the next big thing in the world of automation. IoT devices usually have a universal application as they are not constrained to any one particular domain. With more advances in technology and the impact it can have on our daily lives, IoT can have various applications in our home that allow improving the way we live and carry out our daily chores. Smart homes are no longer an unexplored territory, and new devices are being invented to make our lives easy and make us feel secure. However, it has been known how expensive these individual devices tend to get. A single household has multiple lamps, and the cost tends to exponentially increase while the willingness to pay for each bulb by the consumers tends to decrease with increment in the number of devices being bought.

Our project is a design and architectural extension of the project undertaken by one of the authors ([Jubeen Shah](https://github.com/jubeenshah)) in his undergraduate study. The idea of [COSMOS](./COSMOS.pdf), in brief, is to make affordable custom IoT end-points, that can be managed via a single device or custom designed interface. These devices could be any iOS, Android or any smart device which can access the internet in the desired automation environment. Few examples of the managed end-points that will be developed are intrusion sensors, fire sensors, connected RGB LED Lights, Connected Switches & Switchboards, integration of — temperature & humidity sensors, Air Quality Sensor, UV Sensor, Air Pressure Sensor and so on. In a related trend, and keeping the user experience into consideration, other forms of digital interactions including personal digital assistants — like Siri, Alexa, and Google Assistant, are also considered for integration into the project.

This document outlines the business and technical requirement of COSMOS in Sections 2 and 3. The elements of the IoT system architecture including the things, people, sensors and actuators, involved are described in Section 4. Questions pertaining to the architecture of the project are addressed in Section 5, while alternate design methodologies considered with their limitations are discussed in Section 6. A detailed overview of the IoT-A architecture with the related diagrams and feedback model are discussed in Section 7 and 8. The type of analytics and computing models are discussed in Section 9. Details about the management tasks and virtualization are deliberated in Section 10 and 11. Finally, we wrap with some future work in Section 12.

Click [here](./Shah-Nguyen.pdf) to see the full design document. 
